- [Instructor] WebLogic currently has a version 5 driver,
and we're using a MySQL version 8 driver.
How do we solve this?
There's a couple ways we're going to do this,
and this would really work with any driver
that's not compatible with WebLogic.
The first thing we're going to do
is going to switch back to our terminal,
I'm going to stop the WebLogic instance,
then we're going to CD to the Oracle Middleware,
Oracle Common, modules, driver.
And the modules common directory
contains all the various libraries and drivers
that are needed by WebLogic, including MySQL version 5.
We're going to do two things.
First, I've already downloaded and unzipped
the latest MySQL version 8 driver,
and we can see that the version 5 driver
is here in the modules directory by typing "grep MySQL".
What we're going to do is copy the latest version,
going to paste it here, we'll do a grep again,
now we can see both.
The second thing we're going to do
is rename the directory for the version 5 driver,
and the reason we have to do this
is because the driver name and the location
are listed in a meta INF file,
which WebLogic loads into the classpath at startup.
Now, according to WebLogic, if you are going to load
an identical driver into the modules folder,
you must either remove it or rename it.
What we're going to do here is we're going to rename
the version 5 driver, we'll do that
by typing move MySQL, and we'll call this bac,
and I'm just going to keep the same name.
Now if we do LS grep again, we can see
that the only two drivers we have are those.
The second thing we need to do is we need to change
the set domain and environment .sh script,
and this is where the drivers are loaded,
so I'm going to CD back to my home directory
and I'm going to type VI, Oracle, Middleware,
Oracle Home, user projects, domains, H plus, bin,
and Set Domain Environment script.
We'll scroll down here to right below the comments,
hit I for insert mode, hit enter a couple times,
and enter a comment, and the comment
I'm going to make here is basically
that we are setting and modifying classpath
to put MySQL driver on classpath.
We'll hit enter, and I have the name
of this file stored over here in our samples,
so I'm going to copy this to make it quicker for us.
Come in here, we'll type classpath equals,
paste that in, and then we're going to say
colon, dollar sign, curly brackets, classpath,
close curly bracket, close quote.
Now we hit the escape key, W, colon, Q to quit,
and this will ensure that the driver's on the classpath
when we restart the server.
So we've changed the name of the original driver folder
and our modules directory by prepending it with bac,
we've copied the latest MySQL driver
and we've changed the classpath
to include a reference to the driver.
So the next step is to restart the WebLogic server.
We'll do that by going into.
Once this is done, we're going to scroll up here
and locate the name of the WebLogic driver
that was loaded into the classpath.
Scroll up, there's a huge section here of drivers
and we can see it's located right there.
There is our MySQL connector driver.